=head1 NAME

HTML::EmbeddedPerl - The Perl embeddings for HTML.

=head1 SYNOPSYS

I<automatic>.

B<option> is B<0-1>

  <$ my $test = 1; $>
  <$ print $test $> # OK

B<option> is B<2-3>

  <$ my $test = 1; $>
  <$ print $test $> # NG

  <$ use vars qw($test); $test = 1; $ev::test = 1; $>
  <$ print $test $> # OK
  <$ print $ev::test $> # OK

=head2 run in the automatically

passing of instanced object B<$ep>.
that are reference of B<Apache::RequestRec>I<(modperl)> or B<__PACKAGE__>I<(cgi)>.
example of use in the code tags.

  # set output header ($key,$value)
  $ep->header_out('Content-Create','foo');
  # set of contents type, default is 'text/html', output forcing.
  $ep->content_type('text/plain');

if you want not use of global variables, please use B<$ev>.
destruct B<$ev> after execute.
but it can use between multiple tags too.

=head2 using in the script

  $htm = something;

  use HTML::EmbeddedPerl;
  $e = HTML::EmbeddedPerl->new();

  # set output header ($key,$value)
  $e->header_out('Content-Create','foo');
  # set of contents type, default is 'text/html'
  $e->content_type('text/plain');

  # flushing header and contents. (example 1)
  $e->ep(\$htm);

  # not flushing header, return contents to $r.
  $r = $e->ep(\$htm);

  # flushing HTTP header.
  $e->flush;
  # same above. (example 1)
  print $r;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The Perl-Code embeddings for HTML, it is simple and easy.

adding I<E<lt>$ Perl-Code $E<gt>> to your HTML.

=head2 mod_perl2

write B<httpd.conf> or B<.htaccess>.

  <FilesMatch ".*\.phtml?$">
  # Output Mode - 0..5, see OPTIONS section.
  PerlSetEnv OUTMODE 0
  # Template Mode - 0..1, see OPTIONS section.
  PerlSetEnv USEFEAT 0
  SetHandler modperl
  PerlResponseHandler HTML::EmbeddedPerl
  PerlOptions +ParseHeaders
  </FilesMatch>

needs most compatibility, use I<PerlResponseHandler perl-script>.
*please do not use B<CORE::print>. (or call B<$ep->rflush()> needed)

=head2 CGI

inserting first line to

  #!/your/path/twepl

=head2 Wrapper

if you cannot use twepl? but wrapper.pl is available.
write B<.htaccess>.

  AddType application/x-embedded-perl .phtml
  AddHandler application/x-embedded-perl .phtml
  Action application/x-embedded-perl /your/path/wrapper

=head1 TIMEOUT

force exiting over the timeout for loop detection.
B<$TIMEOUT> is global, please change it overwritten.

  # default is "2" seconds.
  $TIMEOUT = 2;

already executing under alarm, cannot change that timeout.

  # set as new timeout.
  alarm(X);
  # cancelling timeout.
  alarm(0);

=head2 mod_perl2

  # set as new timeout.
  alarm(($TIMEOUT=X));
  # cancelling timeout and unset timeout.
  alarm(($TIMEOUT=0));

=head2 CGI

  # set as new timeout.
  alarm(X);

=head2 Wrapper

before calling sub B<ep()>

  $HTML::EmbeddedPerl::TIMEOUT = X;

=head1 INTERNAL METHODS

  _coloring
  _extract_hash
  _extract_array
  _extract_bool
  _extract_bool_unless
  _extract_tags
  _get_crlf
  _ignore_comments
  _init
  _run

  handler

=head1 BASIC METHODS

=head2 ep

  ep($string,$option);

=head2 new

  $ep = HTML::EmbeddedPerl->new();

=head1 METHODS FOR CGI

=head2 flush

flushing HTTP header.

  $ep->flush;

=head2 header

PHP like method.

  header("$key: $val");

=head2 echo

PHP like method.

  echo $string;

=head1 COMPATIBLE METHODS

it tiny-tiny solving B<cgi>-B<modperl> compatibility methods.

=head2 header_out

  $ep->header_out($key,$val);

=head2 content_type

  $ep->content-type($type);

=head2 print

  $ep->print($string);

=head2 printf

  $ep->print($format,$string);

=head1 OTHER METHODS

other methods define it freely.

=head2 mod_perl2

depends B<Apache::RequestRec> and more.

=head1 EXPORTS

ep(B<string>,B<option1>,B<option2>)

=head1 OPTIONS

ep(B<string>,B<option1>,B<option2>)

=head2 OPTION 1

B<0> = default, execute only once.
B<1> =  I<-- with coloring source>.
B<2> = older version compatible, every tags execute.
B<3> =  I<-- with coloring source>.
B<4> = output internal code.
B<5> =  I<-- with coloring source>.
B<6> = output internal code to multiple-tags.
B<7> =  I<-- with coloring source>.

=head2 OPTION 2

B<0> = default, B<not> template mode.
B<1> = template mode.I<(use beta features)>

=head1 COMMENTS

B<#> comments
B<//> comments
B</*> comments B<*/>

=head1 Extract Vars

case of extract scalar in non-code blocks.

  <$ my $scalar = 'this is scalar'; $>
  <p>$scalar</p>
  ...
  <p>this is scalar</p>

  <$ my @array = (1..3); $>
  <p>@array</p>
  ...
  <p>1 2 3</p>

if you want not extract vars, please use escape sequence B<'\'>.

  <p>\$scalar</p>
  <p>\@array</p>
  ...
  <p>$scalar</p>
  <p>@array</p>

and available simple template.

=head1 BETA Features

use this beta features needs set option.
or insert as first element in non-code blocks it.

B<<!--Y-->>
B<<!--N-->>

default is B<off>, because it was very slow.

=head2 Extract Array

<@B<ARRAYNAME>>...</@> or <\@B<ARRAYREFNAME>>...</@>, extract value is B<$_>.

B<X> is nested depth.

B<$nX> = current array name.
B<$iX> = current position.
B<$cX> = equals scalar @array;

and B<$XXX> = want vars.

  <$ my @array = ('a'..'c'); $>
  <@array><p>$i: $_</p>\n</@>
  ...
  <p>0: a</p>
  <p>1: b</p>
  <p>2: c</p>

=head2 Extract Hash

<%B<HASHNAME>>...</%> or <\%B<HASHREFNAME>>...</%>, extract key is B<$kX>, value is B<$vX>.

B<X> is nested depth.

B<$nX> = current hash name.
B<$cX> = equals scalar keys %hash;

and B<$XXX> = want vars.

  <$ my %hash = ('a'=>1,'b'=>2,'c'=>3); $>
  <table>
  <%hash><tr><th>$k0</th><td>$v0</td></tr>\n</%>
  </table>
  ...
  <table>
  <tr><th>a</th><td>1</td><tr>
  <tr><th>b</th><td>2</td><tr>
  <tr><th>c</th><td>3</td><tr>
  </table>

=head2 Boolean Expression

<B<EXPRESSION>>...</=> or B<unless> <!B<EXPRESSION>>...</!>
replace inner B<<!>> to else, <!B<EXPRESSION>> to elsif.

  <$ my $flag = 1; my $oops = 'oops!'; $>
  <=$flag><p>$flag</p><!><p>$oops</p></=>
  ...
  <p>1</p>

B<E<gt>> is same a tag-closer, try B<($a E<gt> $b)> in compilation errors.

=head1 AUTHOR

TWINKLE COMPUTING <twinkle@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2010 TWINKLE COMPUTING All rights reserved.

=head1 LISENCE

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
